* General:

From playing the game, we have found that tripods are the strongest way to
win. This is because in the formation of a tripod, you can place pieces on
valauble positions of the board so that even if your tripod is blocked
you can threaten other tripods or winning conditions. As well as this,
it is quite easy to block a ring with a single move. Exceptions to this
include larger rings, however they take much longer to set up and hence a 
tripod will win the game faster.

For our searching algorithm we use Minimax Search with Alpha Beta pruning.

We use a combination of heuristics in order to make up our evaluation 
function as detailed below. This allows us to determine the best possible
move. Our creative techniques are also detailed below.


* Evaluation Function:

We use several heuristics in combination for our evaluation function.

Firstly, we assign the values of +1000 and -1000 to a winning state and a 
losing state respectively. For a draw, we assign the value of 0. If the 
board is not in a winning state, we return a value that is evaluated
from our heuristics.

This allows us to block opponent victories by detecting them in advance
and positioning our pieces to block them.

* Heuristics:

- Connecting to your own pieces:

When a piece is placed next to a piece of the same colour we assign a value
of 2 for this. This is because connecting to your own pieces is required
to form loops and tripods and hence is a favourable move.

- Secondary Connections:

If a piece is placed at distance = 2 (including the piece) away,
in a certain configuration, we give this a value of 1. The specific
configuration we look for is a diamond shape with the two pieces at the
top at bottom (vertical diamond) or left and right (horizontal diamond).
We call this kind of configuration a secondary connection because no matter
where the opposing player goes, you can simply take the other empty cell
connecting the two pieces and the pieces will be connected. There is some
situations where this does not hold true. An exmaple being when you have 
multiple secondary connections and an opponent placing a piece in one also 
blocks part of another one. This means that you won't be able to guarentee
you can connect all of them, however this is a much rarer scenario and it
is still valuable to form secondary connections. 

- Distance to edge:

We assign a heuristic value to pieces based on their distance from edges.
As stated earlier, we find that tripods are much stronger than rings. 
If there is already a cell of your own colour on the edge, we value
that edge less as you only need to connect to edges once to form a tripod.

This allows us to value cells that help form the quickest tripods.

- Valuable Cells:

When the board is initialised we value cells, which are strong cells to form
tripods, highly. These are the cells that are distance 1 from the edge,
forming the outline of a smaller board (dimension n-1). We only use this 
heuristic at the beginning stages of the game so that our player takes
high value positions at the start of the game in order to set up a strong
infrastructure. Later on, these positions may become less valuable depending
on the board state.




* Strategy & Creative Techniques:

Initially our player could not calculate moves fast enough. 
We had to make some optimisations in order to speed up our player. 
As minimax checks for terminal states, this required us to call getWinner() 
repeatedly to check for a draw/losing/winning state. The repeated calls for
this in the minimax recursive tree resulted in a massive slow down of a 
player. 

To counteract this, we assume that for the before the first X moves
(x=9 for board size 3 and x=11 otherwise) there cannot possibly be a win,
so we do not check for a winner in these states. 
Secondly, if a move is made in minimax that does not connect to a piece of
the same colour, getWinner() is not called as it can't be a winning move.

Depth limit of the minimax search was also a big factor in the running time
of our player. As a result, we dynamically adjust the depth to search 
depending on how many possible moves there are to search. We had planned
to also limit the cells that we search to only the cells nearby each players
cells allowing us to limit to number of cells however we ran out of time
to implement this.

For our valuable cells heuristic, we had also planned to give additional
value to corner cells of this smaller board outline (of valuable cells)
as when you take one of these cells, you are distance=1 of two edges, a very
valuable position, however we ran out of time.

For swapping, we evaluate the position of whether the position of the
piece that the other player took is valuable using minimax. It is almost
always favourable to swap as going first leads to a large advantage. In our
play tests we found that if the first player always played perfectly, the 
worst outcome for them was a draw. As a result, we made sure to emphasize
the use of swapping.
